{\rtf1\ansi
{\fonttbl
 \f0\fswiss Arial;
 \f1\fmodern Courier;
 \f2\ftech Symbol;}
\deff0
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue196;}
\fs20
\sb100
#{\footnote bifmix_classes}
${\footnote BIF/Mix classes}
+{\footnote defbrowse}
K{\footnote Classes}
K{\footnote BIF/Mix classes}
{\fs26\cf1\b Classes}\par
This section describes the classes in BIF/Mix. There is no class hierachy diagram. 
\page

#{\footnote FWWindowThread}
${\footnote FWWindowThread}
+{\footnote defbrowse}
K{\footnote FWWindowThread}
{\fs26\cf1\b FWWindowThread}\par
Declaration: 
\line{\f1
class FWWindowThread : public FWindowThread \{\line
}
\par

WYDIWYG: BIFINCL_WINDOW and BIFINCL_THREAD\par

The FWWindowThread is the base class of threads that need to use BIF/Window.\par

{\b{Caution: }}Under Windows 3.x secondary threads are limited to using 
PostMessage(). They cannot for instance create windows, use SendMessage() or 
use any API that may yield to other applications. 
\par

\page

#{\footnote FMTApplication}
${\footnote FMTApplication}
+{\footnote defbrowse}
K{\footnote FMTApplication}
{\fs26\cf1\b FMTApplication}\par
Declaration: 
\line{\f1
class FMTApplication : public FApplication \{\line
}
\par

WYDIWYG: BIFINCL_WINDOW and BIFINCL_THREAD and BIFINCL_APPLICATION\par

FMTApplication must be used instead of {\uldb FApplication}{\v FApplication} in 
programs that use BIF/Thread.\par

Under Windows 3.1 this class ensures that modal message loops (used in 
{\uldb FModalDialog::DoModal()}{\v FModalDialog_DoModal} and 
{\uldb MessageBox()}{\v MessageBox} does not block other threads.\par

\page

#{\footnote FWMainWindowThread}
${\footnote FWMainWindowThread}
+{\footnote defbrowse}
K{\footnote FWMainWindowThread}
{\fs26\cf1\b FWMainWindowThread}\par
Declaration: 
\line{\f1
class FWMainWindowThread : public FMainWindowThread \{\line
}
\par

WYDIWYG: BIFINCL_WINDOW and BIFINCL_THREAD and BIFINCL_APPLICATION\par

FWMainWindowThread is used as the main thread of a program that uses BIF/Window. 
The class starts up BIF/Window in its implementation of FMainThread::Main, so 
the program logically starts executing at {\uldb FApplication::Main()}{\v FApplication_Main}\par

You will normally not need to create subclasses of FWMainWindowThread.\par

\page

}