{\rtf1\ansi
{\fonttbl
 \f0\fswiss Arial;
 \f1\fmodern Courier;
 \f2\ftech Symbol;}
\deff0
{\colortbl;\red0\green0\blue196;}
\fs20
\sb100
#{\footnote bw_compiler_setup}
${\footnote BIF/Window compiler setup}
+{\footnote defbrowse}
K{\footnote Compiler setup}
K{\footnote BIF/Window compiler setup}
{\fs26\cf1\b Compiler setup}\par
In general you don't have to use special setup for BIF/Window.\par

If you are using the DLL version of BIF you must define 'BIF_IN_DLL' 
otherwise you program will crash.\par

\par\pard\sb100\tx550\li550\fi-549
\tab
{\uldb Windows 3.1}{\v bw_compiler_setup_win31} 
\par
\tab
{\uldb OS/2 PM}{\v bw_compiler_setup_os2} 
\par
\tab
{\uldb WMS}{\v bw_compiler_setup_wms} 
\par
\tab
{\uldb win32 (win95/NT)}{\v bw_compiler_setup_win32} 
\par\pard\sb100
 
\page

#{\footnote bw_compiler_setup_win31}
${\footnote BIF/Window Compiler setup for Windows 3.1}
+{\footnote defbrowse}
K{\footnote Windows 3.1}
K{\footnote BIF/Window Compiler setup for Windows 3.1}
{\fs26\cf1\b Windows 3.1}\par
The only thing to setup when using BIF/Window is to ensure that your 
application uses the same STRICTness as BIF/Window. BIF/Window can be 
compiled with or without STRICT defined. We strongly recommend using STRICT. 
\page

#{\footnote bw_compiler_setup_os2}
${\footnote BIF/Window Compiler setup for OS/2 PM}
+{\footnote defbrowse}
K{\footnote OS/2 PM}
K{\footnote BIF/Window Compiler setup for OS/2 PM}
{\fs26\cf1\b OS/2 PM}\par
No special setup should be necessary. 
\page

#{\footnote bw_compiler_setup_wms}
${\footnote BIF/Window Compiler setup for WMS}
+{\footnote defbrowse}
K{\footnote WMS}
K{\footnote BIF/Window Compiler setup for WMS}
{\fs26\cf1\b WMS}\par
Since WMS uses BIF/Thread you must use the compiler setup recommended in 
{\uldb BIF/Thread Compiler setup}{\v bifthread_compiler_setup} 
\page

#{\footnote bw_compiler_setup_win32}
${\footnote BIF/Window Compiler setup for win32}
+{\footnote defbrowse}
K{\footnote Win32}
K{\footnote BIF/Window Compiler setup for win32}
{\fs26\cf1\b Win32}\par
No special setup should be necessary except to use the same STRICTness as the 
BIF library. BIF can be compiled with or without STRICT defined. We strongly 
recommend using STRICT.\par

You may also want to define WIN32_LEAN_AND_MEAN to reduce compilation time. BIF 
can also be compiled with or without WIN32_LEAN_AND_MEAN defined. You do not 
have use WIN32_LEAN_AND_MEAN if BIF was compiled using WIN32_LEAN_AND_MEAN and 
vice versa. 
\page

}